# [R] xArch 2023

[2023 xArch Symposium: creativity in the age of digital reproduction](https://www.xarchsymposium.com/)

11-12 November 2023

Xi’an Jiaotong – Liverpool University, Suzhou, China and hybrid

**Architectural Design under Pandemic of Today's AI: From Human computer Interaction (HCI) to Human machine Conversation (HMC)**

Lok Hang Cheung, Juan Carlos Dall’Asta, Giancarlo Di Marco and Asterios Agkathidis

Human-computer interaction (HCI) has been explored in the architecture discipline since the 1960s. It stated that humans and architecture (as machines) are both designers. However, with the rapid growth of AI in recent years, misusing AI has resulted in social problems, as named the "pandemics of today's AI" by Paul Pangaro. This paper aims to find insights into the causes and potential ways of taming the situation, followed by proposing a paradigm for developing HCI-based architecture in the future. Key HCI-based projects and recent developments will be analysed through major academia and research bodies. This research identifies three findings, including blurred definitions of interactivity, loss of physicality and lack of real-world application. Hence, we propose focusing on Human-Machine Conversation (HMC) as a more directed approach to developing HCI in architecture. This focus emphasises the "machine" as a focus on the physical built environment and "conversation" as the most critical interaction for future architecture.


[Presentation slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1RTrc8QqaPp-kCHkUXJ38nQytxzkOlsXF/view?usp=sharing)
