# [R] AISB 2023

2023 Convention of the Society for the Study of Artificial Intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour (Computational Creativity)

13-14 April 2023

Swansea, Wales, UK

**Exploring a Collaborative and Intuitive Framework for Combined Application of AI Art Generation Tools in Architectural Design Process**

Lok Hang Cheung, Juan Carlos Dall'Asta

Artificial Intelligence (AI) art generation tools are widely explored in the conceptual design process in architecture. However, common applications view these tools primarily as rapid and high-quality image generators rather than design collaborators that converse with the designers. This limited application is further intensified by focusing on one specific tool for each use and a requirement for expertise in machine learning to design and access advanced functionalities beyond mere image generation. Therefore, the potential for adopting AI art generation tools in the architectural design process remains limited.
This research compares several AI art generation tools commonly explored in architectural design. Followed by providing case studies of the two authors' exploration in university, an online workshop and personal explorations from 2020 to 2023. Based on the findings, a collaborative and intuitive framework for the combined use of AI art generation tools in the architectural design process is proposed,  facilitating immediate application by architectural designers.

[Proceedings ISBN 978-1-908187-85-7](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12dyN6WxmSlSsz778iMFOs3avHf-L16ZB/view?usp=share_link) (p.122-130)

[Presentation slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1L2WtJNsW_ZGxjf9pK6KLizCFzJS6z4mR/view?usp=share_link)

Citation:

Cheung, L. H., Dall'Asta, J. C. (2023) Exploring a Collaborative and Intuitive Framework for Combined Application of AI Art Generation Tools in Architectural Design Process. In B. Muller (Ed.), *Proceedings of the AISB Convention 2023* (pp. 122-130). ISBN 978-1-908187-85-7.
