# [R] EÍDOS 2024 

[EÍDOS 23 Vol. 17 No. 23 (2024): SPACE AND TECHNOLOGY: ARCHITECTURE IN THE DIGITAL ENVIRONMENT](https://revistas.ute.edu.ec/index.php/eidos/issue/view/86)

Published 2 January 2024

**Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Approach to Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIEd) in Architectural Design**

Lok Hang Cheung and Juan Carlos Dall’Asta

The field of artificial intelligence (AI) in architectural design (AIEd) has experienced significant growth, and there is great potential for the application of Generative AI (GAI) in architectural design education. However, addressing challenges associated with AI is important. These include overhyped speculation, hidden inherent drawbacks such as fairness and ethics, and a trend of lacking human interaction when AI is involved. To tackle these issues, this paper introduces a triangulated research framework encompassing three key perspectives: vision, technology, and user acceptance. This framework aligns with Human-computer Interaction (HCI) principles, AI technology development, and past experiences in AIEd. By adopting this multi-perspective analysis approach, the paper aims to comprehensively understand the phenomena surrounding AI in architectural design. Furthermore, the research presented in this paper goes beyond theoretical discussions and illustrates how the research findings are applied in practice. It showcases the design of an ongoing architectural design course that incorporates the insights gained from the research. Three key observations from the ongoing designed modules indicate the need to shift the focus towards integrating multi-modal AIs and existing parametric tools. Secondly, it is essential to emphasise AIs as design partners rather than making assumptions about AIs’ specific uses at different stages. Lastly, providing user-friendly tools and theoretical foundations motivates students to explore beyond the design process, expanding their research and design boundaries.

[Full journal](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qVMpUM_x2i9GC_n0Wd2Nl8Ebhbe6xyvq/view?usp=sharing)

Citation:

Cheung, L. H., & Dall’Asta, J. C. (2024). Human-computer Interaction (HCI) Approach to Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIEd) in Architectural Design. Eidos, 17(23), 109–131. https://doi.org/10.29019/eidos.v17i23.1282
