# [R] Nexus 2024 

[Nexus Network Journal](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00004-024-00805-9)

Published 27 November 2024

**Composing Conversational Architecture by Integrating Large Language Model: From Reactive to Suggestive Architecture through Exploring the Mathematical Nature of the Transformer Model**

Lok Hang Cheung and Giancarlo Di Marco



First proposed in the 1960s, Conversational Architecture enhances human and computer-integrated built environment interaction. Nowadays, most interactive designs are based on reaction and automation, rarely on conversation. Despite Natural Language Processing, including Large Language Model (LLM), being considered a candidate for Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), LLM applications are limited to verbal communication. The syntactic relationship between LLM, and architectural composition is underexplored. The paper proposes a qualitative framework to integrate the theoretical research of LLM and HCI in Conversational Architecture design. Through a mathematical and algorithmic analysis of a transformer model, the key component of LLM, its attributes are mapped onto Conversational Architecture parameters. With the identified design implications, a theatre hall design experiment is conducted. Through observation, the feasibility and challenges of the proposed framework are analysed.

[Read full Journal](https://rdcu.be/d1A5p)

Citation:

Cheung, L.H., Di Marco, G. Composing Conversational Architecture by Integrating Large Language Model: From Reactive to Suggestive Architecture through Exploring the Mathematical Nature of the Transformer Model. Nexus Netw J (2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00004-024-00805-9
